.TH BTOOL 1 "February, 2011"
.SH NAME
btool \- run blib based programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
btool [ --debug ] sub-dir ... sub-dir command [ command-flags ] [ command-args ]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR Btool
is the frontend for blib based commands.  It searches for the executable 
.BR bin/sub-dir/.../subdir/command
along the 
.BR ${BLIB_PATH}
and runs it with the supplied flags and arguments.
.PP
.BR Btool
provides some services for the commands it runs.  
.TP 2
Autocompletion
.BR Btool
will auto-complete the available hierarchy of commands.  When a bash(1) executable
is reached, its flags will also be auto-completed (see blib-guidelines).
.TP 2
Debugging
When run with \f2--debug\f1,
.BR btool
will
.BR export\ BASH_ENV=${BLIB_BASE}/etc/bash_env
, so that all 
the descendant bash(1) scripts will have common debugging settings.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.BR Btool
facilitates an object-oriented approach to building managemet applications.  All that's needed
is for each managed object to have a directory with some executable scripts that implement the management methods.
.PP
.nf
.ta 37n
Show the current commands hierarchy (including flags):
.BR $\ btool\ command\ show\ --verbose
.ta
.fi
.PP
.nf
.ta 37n
Configure a network interface:
.BR $\ btool\ platform\ network\ interface\ configure\ --dev=eth0\ --addr=10.0.0.1/8\ --label=mgmt
.PP
Manage users:
.BR $\ btool\ platform\ user\ delete\ --name=guest
.BR $\ btool\ platform\ user\ configure\ --name=guest\ --password=xxx\ --shell=/bin/bash
.BR $\ btool\ platform\ user\ show\ --name=guest\ --format=xml
.ta
.fi

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 2
BLIB_BASE
Set by the default installation to /usr/share/blib.
.TP 2
BLIB_PATH
A series of colon separated directories.  Affects 
\f3btool\f1's executable and module search path.
.TP 2
BASH_ENV
Set to ${BLIB_BASE}/etc/bash_env when running with \f2--debug\f1. See bash(1).

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
If all is well \f3btool\f1 exits with the sub-command's exit status.
.PP
It will exit with status \f3126\f1 if it cannot find the requested command, or \f3127\f1 if it cannot execute the requested command.
.SH FILES
.TP 2
/etc/profile.d/blib.sh
The blib startup file.  Non-interactive shell scripts should source it.  Initiates some variables and
defines the auto-completion mechanism.
.TP 2
${BLIB_BASE}/etc/bash_env
See debugging.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP 
blib(3), blib-guidelines,
bdoc(1), bdoc(5)
.SH AUTHORS
Arie Blumenzweig <theblumz@gmail.com>
